[Term Entry] PyTorch Model Export with TorchScript: TorchScript Overview (#6087)
Codecademy/codepedia-content: content/pytorch/concepts/model-export-with-torchscript/terms/torchscript-overview/torchscript-overview.md

> ---

Reviewer: Please also check the folder structure and file path once as the CI is failing with following error - 

```
content/pytorch/concepts/model-export-with-torchscript should contain a model-export-with-torchscript.md file
```

Author: We don't have the concept entry yet. [This](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/pull/6127) PR needs to be merged to merge this torchscript PR.

Title: 'TorchScript Overview'

> Description: 'Way to serialize and optimize PyTorch models for production deployment, enabling model execution in high-performance environments without Python dependencies.'

Reviewer: We can write it better as follows:

```suggestion
Description: 'Serializes and optimizes PyTorch models for production deployment, enabling execution in high-performance environments without Python dependencies.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'AI'
Tags:
  - 'PyTorch'
  - 'Batch Processing'
  - 'DataLoader'
  - 'Neural Networks'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-py-torch-and-neural-networks'
  - 'paths/build-a-machine-learning-model'
---

> **TorchScript** provides a transition between eager mode PyTorch development and production deployment by creating serializable and optimizable models. It converts Python code into a statically typed subset that can be saved and loaded in C++ environments. TorchScript supports both automatic conversion (torch.jit.script) and manual annotation (torch.jit.trace) approaches, allowing for flexible model optimization and deployment strategies.

Reviewer: Code related keywords should be in backticks. Also, the last part can be re-written better as a list:

```suggestion
**TorchScript** bridges the gap between PyTorch’s eager execution mode and optimized production deployment. It converts Python-based models into a statically typed, serialized format that can be loaded and executed in C++ environments without requiring Python dependencies.

TorchScript supports two conversion methods:

- **Scripting** (`torch.jit.script`) – Automatically converts a model to TorchScript by analyzing its structure and control flow.
- **Tracing** (`torch.jit.trace`) – Records operations from an example input, creating a TorchScript representation without modifying control flow logic.

By enabling efficient model execution, TorchScript facilitates deployment in high-performance environments such as mobile devices, embedded systems, and cloud services.
```

## Syntax

> Below is the general syntax for setting up a `DataLoader`:

Reviewer: This is misleading because the examples relate to TorchScript conversion, not `DataLoader`.

```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: We can create h3 here for easy separation of different syntaxes.

```suggestion
### Script Conversion
```

```pseudo
# Scripting
scripted_model = torch.jit.script(model, method_name=None)
```

- `model`: The PyTorch model/function to be scripted.

> - `method_name`: Optional string specifying which method to script (default: `forward`).

Reviewer: We should mention `Optional` with the parameter and the description should just be the explanation.

```suggestion
- `method_name` (Optional): String specifying which method to script (default: `forward`).
```

> 

Reviewer: We can create h3 here for easy separation of different syntaxes.

```suggestion
### Trace Conversion
```

```pseudo
# Tracing

> traced_model = torch.jit.trace(func, example_inputs, optimize=True, strict=True)

Reviewer: The first parameter should be `model` for the sake of consistency in all syntaxes.

```suggestion
traced_model = torch.jit.trace(model, example_inputs, optimize=True, strict=True)
```

```

> - `func`: The PyTorch model/function to be traced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `model`: The PyTorch model/function to be traced.
```

- `example_inputs`: Example inputs that the model will be traced with.

> - `optimize`: Boolean to enable/disable optimizations (default: `True`).
> - `strict`: Boolean to enable/disable strict checking (default: `True`).

Reviewer: The type should be kept with the parameter, and the description should be about what the parameter does.

```suggestion
- `optimize`(Boolean): Enables/disables optimizations (default: `True`).
- `strict`(Boolean): Enables/disables strict checking, ensuring operations match the recorded trace. (default: `True`).
```

> 

Reviewer: We can have a H3 here same as above.

```suggestion
### Saving a Model
```

```pseudo
# Save
scripted_model.save(f, _extra_files=None)
```

- `f`: File object or string containing a file name.

> - `_extra_files`: Dictionary of filename to content to save in the archive.

Reviewer: `_extra_files` is not required.

```suggestion
- `_extra_files`(Optional): A dictionary of filenames for content to save in the archive (default is `None`).
```

> 

Reviewer: We can have a H3 here same as above.

```suggestion
### Loading a Model
```

```pseudo
# Load
loaded_model = torch.jit.load(f, map_location=None, _extra_files=None)
```

- `f`: File object containing a TorchScript model.

> - `map_location`: Location to load model (cpu/cuda).
> - `_extra_files`: Dictionary to store deserialized extra files.

Reviewer: `map_location`, `_extra_files` are not required parameters.

```suggestion
- `map_location` (Optional):  Specifies where to load the model (`cpu`/`cuda`).
- `_extra_files` (Optional): Dictionary to store deserialized extra files.
```

## Example

> This example demonstrates creating a simple neural network, converting it to TorchScript using both scripting and tracing methods, comparing their outputs, and saving the models for deployment, showcasing the basic TorchScript workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to create a simple neural network and convert it to TorchScript using both scripting and tracing methods. It then compares their outputs and saves the models for deployment, illustrating the TorchScript workflow:
```
